SomeScript
==========

UPDATE
------

SomeScript development has effectively frozen, from June 3 2009.  There is
major bug that prevents JavaScript working on many sites, even when
whitelisted.  For those affected, uninstalling SomeScript should fix the issue.
I don't know how to fix it without digging into the arcane guts of Firefox, and
I don't have the knowledge needed to fix this.

SomeScript will still be available on its GitHub page for as long as it's not
inconvenient to me.  If somebody else wants to take a shot at fixing the bugs,
be my guest. :)


Introduction
------------

SomeScript is a JavaScript whitelist add-on for Firefox.  It is heavily based
on the source of YesScript[1] 1.5 by Jason Barnabe.  SomeScript aims to combine
the JavaScript blocking of NoScript and the simple, unintrusive interface of
YesScript.


Compared to YesScript
---------------------

SomeScript is basically a hack of YesScript to block JavaScript by default.
Like YesScript, SomeScript uses Firefox's configurable security policies[2], or
CAPS, to block JavaScript.

Since all the messages have fundamentally changed, the localisations for
languages other than US English have been removed to avoid confusion.  New
localisations are welcome.


Compared to NoScript
--------------------

SomeScript only gives you the JavaScript blocking part of NoScript.

Allowing JavaScript on a site will also allow that site to load and run
JavaScript from other sites it sources.  Cross-site scripting is not checked
for, since it is arguably the responsibility of the site, not the user[3].  If
you need to control cross-site JavaScript, RequestPolicy[4] may suit your
needs.

Unlike NoScript, SomeScript does not block Flash.  The FlashBlock[5] add-on has
this ability.

Unlike NoScript, SomeScript does not block Java or other plugins.

NoScript has the option to whitelist "base domains", e.g. allowing JavaScript
on example.com can also allow it on www.example.com, cdn.example.com and
news.example.com.  SomeScript does not have this yet, but it is on the
wishlist.

NoScript's interface is a mainly through a popup menu in the status bar, can
allow JavaScript on a site temporarily to test it, and can optionally reload
the page automatically.  SomeScript only needs you to click on the script icon
in the status bar to toggle JavaScript on a site, but you need to refresh the
page yourself.

For programmers, SomeScript has a much simpler, cleaner source base than
NoScript. This transparency ensures that you can read the source yourself if
you need to trust it.  The source is licensed under GPLv2, like YesScript,
ensuring that SomeScript will always be free, and will always be developed for
you, the users, first.


 [1]: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/4922
 [2]: http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/components/ConfigPolicy.html
 [3]: http://www.howtocreate.co.uk/crosssite.html#blame
 [4]: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/9727
 [5]: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/433
